Crispy Broccoli Sweet and Spicy Sesame Tahini Noodles
Incredible, sweet and spicy tahini noodles with crispy broccoli that take just 30 minutes to make for the perfect weeknight dinner! These vegan tahini noodles have a delicious homemade sweet and spicy sauce and are the best meatless Monday meal. Easily choose your spice level and customize with your fav proteins!

PREP TIME
10 MINS
 
COOK TIME
20 MINS
 
TOTAL TIME
30 MINS
This post may contain affiliate links, which means that I make a small commission off items you purchase at no additional cost to you. Please read my policy page.

JUMP TO RECIPE
vegan tahini noodles with broccoli in a bowl

I’m back with another incredible noodle dish that will have you jumping for joy and slurping up every last bite. After you guys fell in love with these stir fry sesame noodles and these hot chili chicken noodles I knew it was time to combine the two into delicious, sweet and spicy tahini noodles that are vegan, ready in about 30 minutes and full of flavor.

We’re obsessed with all things tahini here at AK because it’s so versatile in both sweet and savory recipes. You’ll soon find out that it’s the base for a DAMN GOOD sweet and spicy sauce! Pair that sauce with crispy stir fried broccoli and wonderful rice noodles and you’ve got the best Meatless Monday dinner around.

I kept this sesame tahini noodle recipe vegan and deliciously simple, but you’ll find options for yummy protein add-ins and ways to customize within the post. Tony and I enjoyed every last bite of these noodles and they make the perfect quick & easy weeknight dinner. Enjoy!

Want to eat more vegan meals like this one?
We’re still celebrating Earth Month and I’ve got you covered with my brand new, FREE email series: 5 Days of Plant-Based Eating! In this series I share my best plant-based, vegan recipes with you to enjoy for every meal of the day — snacks & desserts included!

Get all of the deets & sign up here to enjoy colorful, veggie-packed meals all season long.


sweet and spicy tahini noodles with broccoli in a bowl
Everything you’ll need to make these tahini noodles
These vegan tahini noodles are packed with flavor even with simple ingredients! Get ready to fall in LOVE with that sweet and spicy tahini sauce. Here’s what you’ll need to make this dish:

For the sauce: this creamy sauce is made with low sodium soy sauce, tahini (we love Soom! Use the code ‘ambitiouskitchen’ for 10% off), brown sugar, fresh ginger and garlic, rice vinegar, hot chili paste and a bit of water to thin it out.
For the broccoli: crispy broccoli in every bite? Yes, please! You’ll stir fry it up with regular or toasted sesame oil and plenty of salt and pepper.
For the noodles: I like to use rice noodles because they’re super quick to make and have a great texture.
To garnish: make these noodles extra spicy with red pepper flakes, and top with toasted sesame seeds!
whisking sweet and spicy sauce for vegan tahini noodles
Customize your vegan tahini noodles
These sesame tahini noodles are super easy to customize to make them your own:

Add extra veggies. Feel free to stir fry some carrot, bell pepper or even snow peas along with the broccoli!
Choose your spice. I love using hot chili paste like sambal oelek, but if you don’t have any you can also use your favorite hot sauce. If you’re sensitive to spice, start with just 1 tablespoon or so and adjust from there.
Swap your sweetener. Instead of brown sugar in the sauce, you can also sub coconut sugar or honey.
stir frying broccoli for tahini noodles

Can I use a different type of noodle?
Yep! While I love the texture that rice noodles have, you can also use spaghetti or linguine to easily make these tahini noodles.

easy vegan tahini noodles in a skillet with broccoli
Try one of these delicious protein boosts
You can easily add your favorite protein to this tahini noodle recipe! Here are some suggestions:

Plant-based: keep these tahini noodles vegan and vegetarian by adding a can of chickpeas, edamame or tofu (we love grilled tofu!)
Fish: try these noodles with grilled, baked or pan fried shrimp.
Chicken: feel free to add cooked, cubed chicken or ground turkey or chicken.
sesame tahini noodles with broccoli in two bowls
Sweet & spicy tahini noodles in 4 simple steps
Make your sweet & spicy sauce. Start by whisking together all of the ingredients for the tahini sauce, making sure it’s fairly thin and easily pourable.
Cook your broccoli. Next, stir fry the broccoli until it’s slightly tender but still has some crunch to it. It should crisp up nicely in the pot and get slightly golden in places.
Make the noodles. Cook the rice noodles according to the direction on the package. Be sure to not overcook them.
Combine the tahini noodles. Add the cooked rice noodles and sauce to the pot with your crispy broccoli. Mix well and then serve with sesame seeds and red pepper flakes if you’d like!
healthy tahini noodles with broccoli in a bowl

How to store & reheat
Feel free to store any leftover tahini noodles in airtight containers in the refrigerator for up to 3-4 days. Simply reheat the noodles in a microwave safe dish and enjoy!

sweet and spicy tahini noodles with broccoli in a bowl
If you like this noodle recipe, you’ll love
30 Minute Vegan Stir Fry Sesame Noodles with Chickpeas & Basil
Sweet & Spicy Hot Chili Chicken Noodles
One Pot Vegan Coconut Curried Brown Rice with Tofu
Courtney’s Curry Chicken Noodle Soup
Spicy Cashew Thai Chickpea Broccoli Salad
I hope you love these sweet and spicy tahini noodles! If you make them be sure to leave a comment and a rating so I know how you liked them. Enjoy, xo!

Crispy Broccoli Sweet and Spicy Sesame Tahini Noodles
4.96 FROM 50 VOTES
LEAVE A REVIEWPRINT RECIPE
vegan tahini noodles with broccoli in a bowl
PREP TIME
10 MINUTES
COOK TIME
20 MINUTES
TOTAL TIME
30 MINUTES
SERVES
4
Incredible, sweet and spicy tahini noodles with crispy broccoli take just 30 minutes to make for the perfect weeknight dinner! These vegan tahini noodles have a delicious homemade sweet and spicy sauce and are the best meatless Monday meal. Easily choose your spice level and customize with your fav proteins!


Ingredients
For the sweet and spicy sauce:
3 tablespoons low sodium soy sauce
1/3 cup tahini (we use Soom)
2-3 tablespoons brown sugar (or sub coconut sugar or honey)
1/2 tablespoon rice vinegar
1 tablespoon fresh grated ginger
2 cloves garlic, minced
1-2 tablespoons hot chili paste (such as sambal oelek)
2-4 tablespoons water, to thin the sauce
For the broccoli:
1 tablespoon sesame oil (preferably toasted sesame oil)
1 large head of broccoli, chopped into florets (about 4-5 cups broccoli florets)
Freshly ground salt and pepper
For the noodles:
10 ounce rice noodles (or sub spaghetti or linguine)
For serving:
Red pepper flakes, if you want it extra spicy
Toasted sesame seeds
Instructions
First make your sweet and spicy sauce: in a medium bowl, whisk together the soy sauce, tahini, brown sugar, rice vinegar, ginger, garlic, hot chili paste and water together. You want the sauce to be pourable and fairly thin, like a salad dressing, it will thicken as it sits a bit. Set aside.

Add 1 tablespoon sesame oil to a large pot and place over medium heat. Add in broccoli florets, season with a little salt and pepper and cook, stirring frequently, for 6-8 minutes or until broccoli is slightly tender but still has a bite. The broccoli should get somewhat charred and slightly golden and crispy in places.
While the broccoli is cooking you can make your rice noodles according to the directions on the package. Then drain and set aside.
Once the broccoli is done cooking, you can add in your rice noodles and the tahini sauce. Toss well to combine and coat the noodles and broccoli with the sauce. Garnish with sesame seeds and extra red pepper flakes if you want it a little spicier. Serves 4.
Recipe Notes
If you don’t have hot chili paste, you can simply use your favorite hot sauce instead but I do prefer the chili paste for flavor.

Nutrition
Servings: 4 servings
Serving size: 1 serving (based on 4)
Calories: 453kcal
Fat: 15.2g
Saturated fat: 2.1g
Carbohydrates: 73g
Fiber: 4.5g
Sugar: 6.6g
Protein: 11.9g
